# Our presentation notes

## 1.	Outline of projects outline, design, motivation and content

!!!BEEFS!!! is a project that arose out of the 507 Wireframe workshop. Following the design of the Criterion visualization I (Reuben) was struck by the connections referred to in Brooke, Heidi, and Rachel's Romantic network idea. The networking of individuals only by the disagreements and negative interactions (though only one component of the Romantic network) seemed interesting. After that workshop I sat down and sketched out a wireframe of sorts on paper based around the visual inspiration of collectible sports trading cards. It seemed to me that the mix of personality, information, and the physical nature of many "beefs" lent itself well to the baseball/hockey/collectible card trading aesthetic/trope. The idea comes out of the similarity in form between sports trading cards and the aesthetic of old promotional boxing posters. I zlso thought it would be an easy format to design around. Initially I was thinking about it as a celebrity "beefs" site, a la TMZ, but I realized that it would also lend itself well to sub "beefs" (e.g. literary, sports, music, arts) and so, for the purposes of this course and this project I thought literary "beefs" would be most appropriate. 

The design stems from the physical format of the trading card. The central page would emulate a box of collectible cards on a field resembling a table or floor. The cards would be visible along their top edges and would be selected according to a pre-determined organizational principle, perhaps selected by the user (alphabetical, type of "beef", literary movement, language, nation). The user would then, by keyboard or mouse, flip through the cards revealing the top of the card with the name. When selected the card would be slipped out of the case and superimpose/ become foregrounded. Clicking or typing [spc/tab/???] would flip between the front and the back of the card. The front would be an image of the individual, with a standardized aesthetic look based on eras. The back of the card would contain biographical information. Weighted/coloured lines would flow from the edge of the card to cards layed out on the field. The field cards would appear when the main card is selected and would be comprised of those individuals the main card has "beefs" with. The weighted/coloured lines would be categorized around "types of beef". The rival cards could then be clicked/typed on to be foregrounded, and could also be selected to see who they had beefs with. 

The content would be the least minimal thing about the project, in that everything would have to be curated. The data could be streamlined once determined, but there would be considerable initial research. The visual design would likely be standardized, but the images would have to be creative commons. Ideally there would be sounds, probably edited and/or recorded with audacity. In some instances video might also be interesting, for instance the many recordings of "beefs" between Norman Mailer and William F Buckley, and the recordings of Buckley threatening Gore Vidal, and later Noam Chomsky, on television (why does everyone think discourse used to be elevated?). Due to copyright issues this may not be possible, but it would be an interesting addition. In future it may be possible to expand the idea given the amazing access to "beefs" through social media like twitter/Facebook/Worldstar Hiphop???
## 2.	Remarks about digital studies and minimal computing (the type of minimalism/ case studies)
## 3.	Draw from course material

In a truly bizarre way, the !!!BEEFS!!! site somewhat resembles Black Quotidian, Linked Jazz, and *maybe* Public Secrets. The similarity is mainly in the curatorial work that has to be done for the project to be successful. This is the rabbit hole that a curated site like !!!BEEFS!!! often runs into. As they grow and expand they tend to become unmanageable and require exponential amounts of labour. 
## 4.	What’s missing? What would be helpful for this group . . . ? Audience???

Other than the obvious potential audience of avid readers and fans of literature, the site may also appeal to literary historians. Once !!!BEEFS!!! had a large enough database it could potentially be useful to scholars looking at networks of intellectual disagreement, favoured methods of dispute of particular literary movements, or other stranger datasets.
## 5.	Questions? Suggestions? Word Choice? Recommendations? 



